Chess Notation Converter
FEN or "Forsyth-Edwards Notation." is a standard method for describing chess positions using
simple text.
The first thing you have to understand about FEN is that the board is broken into eight ranks. (A
rank is a chess term for a row of eight squares running from left to right.) Each rank is converted
into a string, then all eight of these strings are compacted together separated only by slashes
(/).
For example:
1
The adjoining image is the 7th rank of
the diagram in the example above. From
left to right, you see: two black pawns in
FEN, that is pp, three empty spaces that
is 3 in FEN, a black knight that is n (not
"k" -- that's used for the king!), a white
pawn that is P, and a black pawn that is
p. Putting all this together, you get
pp3nPp which represents the 7th rank.
Given a FEN string as an input, the solution should output the board representation in a two line
notation. The first line will contain information about the position of the black pieces and the
second line will contain information about the white pieces.
Output notation
The output notation consists of 3 characters per chess piece:
1. The first character is the column denoted by lowercase characters ‘a’ to ‘h’.
2. The second character is the row number denoted by 1 to 8.
3. The third character is the actual chess piece in lowercase.
The FEN input should be processed top to bottom and left to right.
Input Format:
A single line representing the FEN input
Output Format:
Two lines with the first one containing information about the position of the black pieces and the
second line containing information in the output notation.
Note: All the output strings should be in lower case and should not contain any extra spaces or
other characters
2
Sample #1:
Input:
7K/8/k1P5/7p/8/8/8/8
Expected Output:
a6kh5p
h8kc6p
Explanation:
The image represents the sample input.
● Black king piece is present at column ‘a’ and
row 6. So, it is denoted as ‘a6k.’ Similarly,
black pawn is present at column ‘h’ and row
5. So, it is denoted as ‘h5p’. Since king is
located higher and towards the left of the
board compared to the pawn, the combined
output is ‘a6kh5p’.
● White king piece is present at column ‘h’ and row 8. So, it is denoted as ‘h8k’. Similarly,
the second white piece is ‘c6p’. Since king is located higher than the pawn, the
combined output is ‘h8kc6p’.
Sample #2:
Input :
rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR
Expected Output:
a8rb8nc8bd8qe8kf8bg8nh8ra7pb7pc7pd7pe7pf7pg7ph7p
a2pb2pc2pd2pe2pf2pg2ph2pa1rb1nc1bd1qe1kf1bg1nh1r
Image representation sample input 2
3
